STATEMENT: The task is to devise and fabricate a manually controlled (wired/wireless) robot that can navigate through the estate 
filled with hurdles and obstacles of varying difficulties. Arena would consist of several hurdles and obstacles like: 
Speed Breakers, Railway Turning Track, ,Slippery Wedges, Rope Bridges, Moving Obstacles and Terrain regions consisting of pool of
oil , water and craters. Along with these hurdles the arena also includes undisclosed events and a lot of rough, slippery, moving
inclined plains, rocky pathways and grabbing of objects(ball or rectangular boxes) which challenges the maneuverability of the 
robot.

EVENT FORMAT: Pre-Game Setup : Each team will be allowed a slot of 5 minutes to adjust their machines on the test track. 
Just before the run, teams will get a chance to adjust their bot according to. conditions of the arena. 
Game Procedure : There will be two elimination round viz. pre-qualifying round and a qualifying round . A maximum of 3 restarts 
will be given to the teams. Immobility (if robot is unable to travel at least 5 cm for 30 seconds) would lead to disqualification.
In case the robot topples, the robot will be placed at the previous check point. No interrupts in between the run is allowed. 
Pre-qualifying Round: In this round we simply check your bots that whether they are in specification limits and can perform in 
the arena. Qualifying Round : 1. One run will be given to each team. 2. The maximum time taken to complete the first stage is 
5 minutes. 3. The time taken to complete the first stage of the arena will be noted. If at the end of 5 minutes, the bot is not 
able to complete the stage, then the team will be disqualified. 4. Top 20 teams emerging from this round will qualify for the 
next round. Subsequent Rounds: For the next rounds top teams will be selected according to their performances and points.

Specifications:
Team Specification: 
1. A team may consist of a maximum of 4 members. 
2. Students from different educational institutes can form a team. 3. All students with a valid identity card of their respective 
educational Institutes are eligible to participateBot 

Specifications: 
1. Each team is allowed to have only one bot(wired/wireless) 
2. The bot must fit into a cube of dimensions 250 mm x 250 mm x 250 mm. During a match, the robot can expand, stretch or extend 
within a circle of 1,000 mm in diameter considered from top view. 3. The bot can use on-board/off-board power supply. An external 
power source of 220 Volt AC will be provided. 
4. The max voltage difference between any two points must not exceed 24V. 
5. The bot must be fully manual with all powering and motoring mechanisms self contained. 
6. The bot cannot be constructed using ready made 
Lego kits or any ready made mechanism. But you can make use of ready made gear assemblies. Violating this clause will lead to the
disqualification of the machine. 
7. The total weight of the robot and all the equipment and accessories including the power source should be no more than 3 kg. 
8. Flying or any other method of mobility which leads the robot to lose contact with the ground is not allowed. 
However, the body of the bot can move with respect to the wheels) with the wheels still on ground. 
9. For wired controllers, at all times there must be a slack in the cables and the cables must all be bundled together.

Arena Specifications: will be communicated laterGenaral Rules: 
1. Organisers will not be responsible for any alteration in the arena by the previous machines on the arena. 
2. Any team that is not ready at the time specified will be removed from the competition automatically. 
3. The machines would be checked for their consistency before the run and would be discarded if found inconsistent with 
specifications. 
4. Any machine which damages the arena will be disqualified. 
5. Participants should not dismantle their robots before the completion of the whole competition as the machines might need to 
be verified by the organisers at a later stage to ensure that the participants have not violated any of the rules. 
6. Organisers decision shall be treated as final and binding on all. 
7. The organisers reserve the right to change any or all of the above rules as they deem fit.

